it's a pity that men try to hide their
emotions
i'm happy when i know a man who lets
himself feel the things we do
life with such a man can be so
spontaneous
so much fun i mean really people like to
disrespect my crew but the fact is that
you know my name and i don't know you
you are watching the single most
expensive
video ever made in the history of
active research and informed opinion or
about with my two youtube channels
because if you were sent in a copy of
this book a heavy tome
that i now will not have time to read
um in exchange for my making this video
i have an amazon wishlist where any
support of the channel can buy me a book
if i have the humility
to list books that i can't afford and
this one was about a hundred dollars
local price so
thank you for that long supporter of the
channel and as they say i now get to go
into a kind of self-loathing cycle
because
i have a stack of really worthwhile
books to read and i don't know how long
it's going to be before i get around
this one
anyway this a long time support of the
channel wrote in and said hey
how much would i have to pay you for you
to do a video talking about
a nuclear proliferation nuclear
rearmament with a special focus on the
strategic situation of australia
and thus the whole continent of asia and
i said hey you wouldn't have to pay me a
dime i'd be happy to do it for free
but if you click on this link there is
actually a list of books and
i i said also i don't know your
financial situation it might be that
fifteen dollars
is a lot of money to you might be thirty
dollars a lot of money but there are
books there that you can buy to support
me and
directly or indirectly support the
caliber of intellectual content on the
channel if if i actually read this whole
thing
doubtless at least indirectly it would
be influencing some of the topics i'd be
discussing on camera
all right um the first major
misconception
members of my generation are burdened
with about nuclear weapons
is the assumption that if someone
presses a button it's the end of
the world or if a single nuclear bomb is
dropped
it's going to wipe out a whole country
this is not true
nuclear weapons can be used on a small
scale
with tremendous efficacy and with very
few
further knock-on consequences indeed
this makes them kind of
more scary in a sense because there
isn't this clear line
that no one dares to cross let's say
there's a fleet of ships
in the ocean nuclear weapons can quite
effectively wipe out that fleet of ships
without permanently poisoning or
rendering uninhabitable
a large plot of land and indeed the
historical reality
of what happened in hiroshima and
nagasaki in japan
hiroshima is a densely populated city
today it didn't result in a nuclear
wasteland it wasn't the apocalyptic
scenario that many people imagine
that we've been kind of uh prepared for
more by science fiction than by the
study of real political history
um secondly
there is a deep assumption that
the possession of nuclear weapons by
mutually antagonistic
countries will create a situation of
um shall we say impossible to violate
sovereignty on either side that the
possibility of mutually assured
destruction
to nuclear weapons will lead both
parties or all parties
in a you know system of many different
rival powers
to just say look whatever is going on in
your country
is your problem we're not going to cross
the border we're not going to negotiate
with you we're not going to try to bully
you
when we're the other we're we're going
to keep our we're going to keep our nose
out of your business because
you have nuclear weapons and the exact
opposite
is true nuclear armament leads to
mutual intrusion mutual intrusiveness
now um currently we have unfolding
in belarus a question of the legitimacy
of their government they have had
illegitimate elections or quashed
elections you might say
and the leader there is increasingly
unpopular and he's regarded as an
unjust dictator okay so that's one set
of
moral considerations in conundra what if
he had
nuclear weapons right what then how much
more interested
would other powers be in intruding
into the politics of belarus possibly
including
military intrusion but intervention of
of one
method or another if whoever rules
belarus also had nuclear weapons
and again it's you have to remove the
first assumption it's not that oh
if he had nuclear weapons he could take
over the world
north korea is not going to take over
the world right there's no there's no
plausible threat of north korea taking
over the world
but could north korea wipe out a single
american aircraft carrier in the ocean
or a cluster
of american naval vessels yes something
like that is quite
attainable for north korea could north
korea wipe out one
city in south korea yes you know that's
quite attainable for north korea so
again when you kind of
both lower down the the scale of the
threat
and then understand the instability that
comes with each and every change of
regime in each and every
country that has nuclear weapons even if
it's through a legitimate election
you realize that nuclear proliferation
makes the whole
system of mutually invidious
even if democratic world government
much more mutually intrusive i i'm i'm
intentionally not using a word like
responsible because it doesn't lead to
greater responsibility
um people may be reckless and
irresponsible but they're intruding into
one another's sovereignty
great example communism
in cyprus
do you recall that in the year 2008
the tiny island of cyprus elected a
communist government it wasn't a
communist revolution
they had a democratically elected
communist government it was a complete
disaster
for the people of cyprus it also had
tremendous
knock-on consequences economically for
the people of all of europe
what if cyprus had nuclear arms
what if there was a threat going far
beyond you know the mere question of the
welfare or democratic future of cyprus
or
what's economically advantageous for
europe as a [ __ ] the stability of the
banking system
those questions matter you know those
are real problems what if cyprus had
nuclear weapons how then you start to
draw the line how then do you start
drawing
treaties when people say look um we can
no longer tolerate
any of these nations no matter how small
like we can't allow luxembourg
or cyprus or a country the size of north
korea to have a
dictator who might be as terrible as
joseph stalin
or might be as terrible as a fiddler
because if they have
nuclear weapons we must step in we must
snuff that out
we must provide them with a government
that fits
some definition of normalcy reliability
and trustworthiness
immediately as soon as happens now i
have a real question for you to ask
yourselves that i can't answer
does that lead to the world being
more fragile politically or
more robust would the government of
saudi arabia
be allowed to continue being a
theocracy and a dictatorship in
perpetuity forever
if saudi arabia becomes a country that
not only has
nuclear weapons but that actively uses
nuclear weapons let's just suppose
hypothetically saudi arabia starts
solving its problem
in yemen with the small scale effective
use
of nuclear weapons so again not
rendering yemen
uninhabitable by human beings for many
centuries but
let's just say you know they wipe out
some boats they wipe out some military
bases
um with none of the serious long-term
consequences we've learned to fear
but with some of the serious long-term
consequences that the people of
hiroshima and nagasaki had in japan if
saudi arabia in this
in this context were to become a
muscular nuclear-armed
country what then would be the response
of the rest of the world
and i think most people are just
profoundly uncomfortable
with not knowing the answer to that
question why are we uncomfortable
because it's going to happen anyway
israel has nuclear arms japan
has nuclear arms the official position
of the government of japan
is that they have a proximate nuclear
deterrent
approximate proximate so japan will say
that on japanese soil right now there
are no assembled ready-to-launch
nuclear warheads but if they ever need
them
they can press a button or make a phone
call and all the pieces
that are needed to assemble a working
nuclear warhead can be assembled in a
very short span of time and put into
a nuclear missile so japan
in reality has nuclear weapons right
um i don't recall any pressure
from the united states or europe or
anyone else
to disarm japan and indeed i don't even
think china is uncomfortable with i
don't think china minds japan has new
weapons
and who could the japanese possibly use
nuclear weapons against most likely
china yes also theoretically
uh russia but you know the the
possibilities are are very slim and
and very few now i've been asked and
indeed i've been bribed
to talk about the circumstance of
australia in the world
but if we're being honest the situation
of australia
is typical it's not really special
probably what i would say about
australia is what i would say about
every other
country in the world big and small
australia historically has seen it
as being in its self-interest
to refuse to have nuclear weapons and to
try to bully other nations
especially poorer nations like indonesia
into signing up to non-proliferation
treaties
in plain english australia would sign a
treaty
and make a solemn moral declaration that
australia itself would never have
nuclear weapons
and then ask poorer countries like
indonesia to also
vow that they will not have nuclear
weapons and this is all unfolding
hypocritically under so-called nuclear
umbrella
agreements with the united states of
america
that term is used especially by the
japanese
the idea that if some other country
allied with the united states
really had a problem the united states
would be the one providing the nuclear
weapons that's the other reality another
way to have a proximate nuclear weapon
is
oh well we don't have any nuclear
weapons however
there's a submarine just a few meters
off of our capital city with the run by
the united states military that has a
nuclear missile on it that can launch at
any time
if you this is the height of hypocrisy
but both japan and australia
are capable of calling in american uh
nuclear weapons and submarines are one
of many
mobile platforms them to be delivered
and deployed from australian territory
or from
japanese areas so uh you know this was a
cold war
approach where the treaty itself
would become a sort of fig leaf over the
reality of the proliferation of
nuclear arms on all sides and meanwhile
in case you didn't
you know here the other big dominoes
have already fallen
india pakistan israel
you know many people speculate aloud
that in reality
iran secretly may have nuclear weapons
or like japan may have a proximate
nuclear threat they may have everything
they need
to assemble a nuclear weapon in a jiffy
um
you know if and when they they feel the
need to
so uh is it the question to ask is
is it in australia's interest to be a
country like japan
that plays both sides of the fence
or is it in australia's interest to be a
country like the united states of
america
india and so on that openly um possesses
nuclear weapons well in australia's case
um
there is not much of a disadvantage to
openly possessing nuclear weapons
because i think australia would be
willing to
sign a treaty that says hey if we ever
have
an illegitimate election if we ever have
a dictator take over if we have some
kind of collapse in government
we're going to sign this treaty and
we're going to invite the international
community
to use the uh parliamentary times we're
going to invite
other countries to intervene and then
hold proper elections and get rid of the
government that has taken over
we australia do not want to descend into
the kind of situation
that has just happened in belarus we do
not want to descend into the kind of
situation that happened in germany
in the years leading up to world war ii
we do not want to decay from a
legitimate democracy to an illegitimate
one um
you know no matter how temporarily
popular in the short term such a regime
might be
so they it is quite possible for
australia to both
accept the responsibility of having
nuclear weapons
and to accept this much much higher
level
of mutual intrusion that comes
when every country has to scrutinize
every other country to make sure that
the people in charge
of of sane rational responsible mind
that they are not going to use nuclear
weapons in a way that will have
devastating consequences for their
neighbors or
for the world now
would i prefer to live in a world in
which
greece has nuclear weapons and turkey
has nuclear weapons okay right now if
you don't know
the ancient animosity between greece and
turkey
is resuming once again well greece would
prefer that
turkey whether or not i would prefer
that you know who would prefer
that neither greece nor turkey have
nuclear weapons
france france right now is in north
africa
i can't even say rebuilding the french
empire they're building a new
french empire in north africa the whole
western world is just kind of
sleepwalking through this and doesn't
care guess who cares turkey cares
egypt cares greece has its own battles
with the turks for unrelated reasons
basically
you know uh you know as long as
neither greece nor turkey has nuclear
weapons france feels disproportionately
powerful
in tromping around that whole part of
the world did you notice that the prime
minister of
france flew in to uh lebanon
after the uh massive explosion in beirut
destroyed the harbor there and so on
this is only a couple weeks ago now
did you notice that why do you think he
did that do you think he just felt like
taking a vacation
in the middle of corona virus do you
think that was for no reason at all
france has um shall we say very muscular
diplomacy in the region france has
nuclear weapons
right so you know i
might prefer to live in a world where
none of these powers
have nuclear weapons even the current
circumstances 2020
the scale of this conflict is is
moderate to small um you know all these
countries are capable of sorting out
their differences in libya
sorting out their differences in syria
sorting out who controls what with
lebanon
this is certainly not you know the brink
of world war iv
or anything of the kind but um
you have to recognize that
you know it is in the self-interest of
the people of turkey to have nuclear
weapons and
is then in the interest of the people of
greece to nuclear weapons
and so on and so forth for every
invidious division all around the world
so what is the what is the real solution
it's probably going to be treaties that
define
minimum standards for democracy minimum
standards for a legitimate
legitimacy of government that would not
merely have consequences for a place
like belarus right now like say hey if
you don't meet these minimum standards
what we consider a real election and a
real government
would have also very serious
consequences for a country like
the united states i'm old enough to
remember
the year 2000 when a guy called george w
bush was illegitimately elected
president united states in rigged
elections that nobody did anything about
that
the international community in quotation
marks didn't intervene in any way
you could start signing really binding
treaties
that require the competence and
responsibility and democracy
and transparency of governments and you
know
if you become a nuclear power where
you're willing to hold yourself as a
country to that higher standard
and where you accept that if the quality
of democracy falters in your country
that can happen
it can happen due to an earthquake uh it
can happen due to a plague
and you know what can happen because the
whole population is swept up in a
passion
for a short time and they push a
dictator into power or
you know for some other reason democracy
falls apart we say okay look
we understand that other countries can't
allow us to go through a period of chaos
and anarchy or dictatorship
or communism or fascism they're not
going to tolerate that
because we have made the decision to
have a stockpile
of nuclear weapons
a